This tale comes from the Chippewa (or Ojibwa) people of the northern United States and Canada.

The Legend of Ithenhiela
Known far and wide through all the North Country was one of the biggest, most villainous men who ever lived, Naba-Cha. His enormous height and girth alone would have made him famous, but Naba-Cha was also notorious for his exploits, for he had raided and pillaged lands far in the North, East, and South. Yet, he had never plundered lands in the West, for in that land lived an even bigger man than Naba-Cha.

In the wigwam of Naba-Cha also lived Ithenhiela, a boy whose early fiery days of joy had long ago turned to cold ash.
One day Hottah the moose approached Ithenhiela with a plan, for Hottah knew something of the geography of the West and of the personality of the great man who lived there. As he presented Ithenhiela with the rough route of an escape, Ithenhiela’s mind traveled along its own troubled pathways.

His family surrounded him. As his sisters teased him about being too small and young to ride a horse yet, he could see the twinkle in his mother’s eyes, kindled by both amusement and affection. Straining to defend himself, he was also secure in the love that enveloped him.

“This lonely existence as Naba-Cha’s servant is slowly draining your lifeblood,” Hottah, who 
had finished with the escape plans, exhorted. Then he instructed Ithenhiela to gather a stone, a clod of earth, a piece of moss, and the branch of a tree before they embarked on their journey. Ithenhiela could only nod, for his mind still lay mired in the dark pond of his past.

The sun set only twice before Ithenhiela found himself on Hottah’s back, traveling beyond the Too-Cha-Tes River and Hottah’s ancestral lands, and galloping over the vast ocean of undulating grasses beyond which lay the West. Scarcely had they reached the plains, however, when, like a ghostly phantom,
Naba-Cha appeared on his giant caribou 
just behind them. Immediately, Hottah commanded, “Fling the clod of earth behind 
you,” and when Ithenhiela did, giant hillocks sprang up to thwart the progress of
Naba-Cha.

When Naba-Cha recovered and reappeared, Hottah commanded, “Fling the piece of moss behind you,” and when Ithenhiela did, a great mossy swamp saturated the earth behind them to again impede Naba-Cha.

Hottah and Ithenhiela continued west to the country of the Setting Sun, but Naba-Cha also persisted, causing Hottah to command Ithenhiela to fling the rock behind him. When he did so, great rocky mountains rose up, and their enormous height and snow-capped majesty again forestalled Naba-Cha’s progress—but did not stop him. Finally, when Naba-Cha approached again, Hottah commanded Ithenhiela to fling the tree branch, from which grew a mighty forest that reached all the way to the Tes-Yukon River. When Hottah and Ithenhiela had traversed the river, Naba-Cha, delayed only briefly by the forest, caught up with them. From the opposite side, he implored Hottah to help him cross, and Hottah acquiesced. But midway through, Hottah threw the contemptible Naba-Cha into the roiling river.

When Hottah reached the riverbank, he explained that his own journey had now ended, but soon, by steadfastly following the river, Ithenhiela would reach a great tipi, the home of Nesnabi, the Good Man. And so
Ithenhiela did, and had further adventures, but they are a story for another campfire. 
